README.md, before:

Validate an LSST DM processCcd.py output repository
against a set of LSST Science Requirements Document Key Performance Metrics.

This package also includes examples that run processCcd task on some 
CFHT data and DECam data
and validate the astrometric and photometric repeatability of the results.

Pre-requisites: install and declare the following

1. `pipe_base` from the LSST DM stack (note that `pipe_base` is included with `lsst_apps`, which is the usual thing to install)
2. `obs_decam` from https://github.com/lsst/obs_decam
3. `obs_cfht` from https://github.com/lsst/obs_cfht
4. `validation_data_cfht` from https://github.com/lsst/validation_data_cfht
5. `validation_data_decam` from https://github.com/lsst/validation_data_decam

The `obs_decam`, `obs_cfht`, `validation_data_cfht`, `validation_data_decam`, `validate_drp` products are also buildable by the standard LSST DM stack tools: `lsstsw` or `eups distrib`.  But they (intentionally) aren't in the dependency tree of `lsst_apps`.  If you have a stack already installed with `lsst_apps`, you can install these in the same manner.  E.g.,

```
eups distrib install obs_decam obs_cfht validation_data_decam validation_data_cfht validate_drp
```

XOR

```
rebuild -u obs_decam obs_cfht validation_data_decam validation_data_cfht validate_drp
```

------
To setup for a run with CFHT:
```
setup obs_cfht 
setup validation_data_cfht
setup validate_drp
```
As usual, if any of these packages are not declared current you will also need to specify a version or tag.

`validation_data_cfht` contains both the test CFHT data and selected SDSS reference catalogs in astrometry.net format.

Run the measurement algorithm processing and astrometry test with
```
$VALIDATE_DRP_DIR/examples/runCfhtTest.sh
```
This will create a repository in your current working directory called CFHT.

The last line of the output will give the median astrometric scatter (in milliarcseconds) for stars with mag < 21.

------
To setup for a run with DECam:
```
setup obs_decam
setup validation_data_decam
setup validate_drp
```
As usual, if any of these packages are not declared current you will also need to specify a version or tag.

`validation_data_decam` contains both the test DECam data and selected SDSS reference catalogs in astrometry.net format.

Run the measurement algorithm processing and astrometry test with
```
$VALIDATE_DRP_DIR/examples/runDecamTest.sh
```
This will create a repository in your current working directory called DECam.

The last line of the output will give the median astrometric scatter (in milliarcseconds) for stars with mag < 21.

------
There are also "Quick" versions to run one CCD for quick debugging and verification that things are running properly: `examples/runCfhtQuickTest.sh` and `examples/runDecamQuickTest.sh`.

------
Multiple filters can be processed by specifying a filter name for each visit.  See `examples/DecamCosmos.yaml` for an example.  In brief:
```
# Visit - filter are matched pairs.
visits: [176837, 176839, 176840, 176841, 176842, 176843, 176844, 176845, 176846,
         177341, 177342, 177343, 177344, 177345, 177346,]
filter: ['z', 'z', 'z', 'z', 'z', 'z', 'z', 'z', 'z',
         'r', 'r', 'r', 'r', 'r', 'r', ]
# ccd list is iterated through for each visit-filter pair
ccdnum: [10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18]
```

------
While `examples/runCfhtTest.sh` and `examples/runDecamTest.sh` respectively do all of the processing and validation analysis, below are some examples of running the processing/measurement steps individually.  While these examples are from  the CFHT validation example, analogous commands would work for DECam.

1. Make sure the astrometry.net environment variable is pointed to the right place for this validation set:
    ```
    export ASTROMETRY_NET_DATA_DIR=${VALIDATION_DATA_CFHT_DIR}/astrometry_net_data
    ```

2. Ingest the files into the repository
    ```
    mkdir -p CFHT/input
    ingestImages.py CFHT/input "${VALIDATION_DATA_CFHT_DIR}"/raw/*.fz --mode link
    ```

3. Create the `runCfht.list` file from the YAML configuration file
    ```
    makeRunList.py "${VALIDATE_DRP_DIR}"/examples/runCfht.yaml > "${VALIDATE_DRP_DIR}"/examples/runCfht.list
    ```

Once these basic steps are completed, then you can run any of the following:

* To process all CCDs with the standard AstrometryTask and 6 threads use newAstrometryConfig.py:
    ```
    processCcd.py CFHT/input @examples/runCfht.list --configfile config/newAstrometryConfig.py --clobber-config -j 6 --output CFHT/output
    ```

* To process all CCDs with the old ANetAstrometryTask and 6 threads:
    ```
    processCcd.py CFHT/input @examples/runCfht.list --configfile config/anetAstrometryConfig.py --clobber-config -j 6 --output CFHT/output
    validateDrp.py CFHT/output --configFile examples/runCfht.yaml
    ```

* To process one CCD with the new AstrometryTask:
    ```
    processCcd.py CFHT/input  --id visit=850587 ccd=21 --configfile config/newAstrometryConfig.py --clobber-config --output tempout
    ```

* Or process one CCD with the ANetAstrometryTask:
    ```
    processCcd.py CFHT/input --id visit=850587 ccd=21 --configfile config/anetAstrometryConfig.py --clobber-config --output tempout
    ```

* Run the validation test
    ```
    validateDrp.py CFHT/output --configFile examples/runCfht.yaml
    ```

Note that the example validation test selects several of the CCDs and will fail if you just pass it a repository with 1 visit or just 1 CCD.

Files of Interest:
------------------
* `bin.src/validateDrp.py`  : Analyze output data produced by processCcd.py
* `config/cfhtConfig.py`  : empty config overrides for Cfht.  Edit to easily include config parameters in the examples.
* `config/decamConfig.py` : empty config overrides for Decam.  Edit to easily include config parameters in the examples.
* `examples/runCfhtTest.sh`  : CFHT Run initialization, ingest, measurement, and astrometry validation.
* `examples/runDecamTest.sh` : DECam Run initialization, ingest, measurement, and astrometry validation.
* `examples/runExample.sh`  : General example runner.
* `examples/Cfht.yaml`   : CFHT YAML file with visits, ccd, paramaters for validateDrp.
* `examples/Decam.yaml`   : DECam YAML file with visits, ccd, paramaters for validateDrp.
* `examples/DecamCosmos.yaml`   : DECam COSMOS YAML file with visits, ccd, paramaters for validateDrp.
* `python/lsst/validate/drp/base.py` : base routines for the module
* `python/lsst/validate/drp/calcSrd.py` : calculate metrics defined by the LSST SRC.
* `python/lsst/validate/drp/check.py` : coordination and calculation routines.
* `python/lsst/validate/drp/io.py` : JSON input and output routines.
* `python/lsst/validate/drp/plot.py` : plotting routines
* `python/lsst/validate/drp/print.py` : printing routines
* `python/lsst/validate/drp/srdSpec.py` : pipeBase Struct with SRD specifications.  Access routine helper.
* `python/lsst/validate/drp/util.py` : utility routines
* `README.md` : THIS FILE.  Guide and examples.

Commit message:

Update README to describe new behavior and caveat.
The caveat is that this is single-node, load-everything-in-memory,
and then match.  This is infeasible at scale.  Specifically,
this currently fails on lsst-dev at more than ~500 catalogs in a band.

README.md, after:

Validate an LSST DM processCcd.py output repository
against a set of LSST Science Requirements Document Key Performance Metrics.

```
setup validate_drp
validateDrp.py CFHT/output
```

will produces output, plots, JSON files analyzing the processed data in `CFHT/output`.  Metrics will be separately calculated for each filter represented in the repository.  Replace `CFHT/output` with your favorite processed data repository and you will get reasonable output.

One can run `validateDrp.py` in any of the following modes:
1. use no configuration file (as above)
2. pass a configuration file with just validation parameters (good_mag_limit, number of expected matches, ...) but no dataId specifications
3. pass a configuration file that specifies validation parameters and the dataIds to process.  See examples below for use with a `--configFile`

Caveat:  Will likely not successfully run on more than 500 catalogs per band due to memory limits and inefficiencies in the current matching approach.

------
This package also includes examples that run processCcd task on some 
CFHT data and DECam data
and validate the astrometric and photometric repeatability of the results.

Pre-requisites: install and declare the following

1. `pipe_base` from the LSST DM stack (note that `pipe_base` is included with `lsst_apps`, which is the usual thing to install)
2. `obs_decam` from https://github.com/lsst/obs_decam
3. `obs_cfht` from https://github.com/lsst/obs_cfht
4. `validation_data_cfht` from https://github.com/lsst/validation_data_cfht
5. `validation_data_decam` from https://github.com/lsst/validation_data_decam

The `obs_decam`, `obs_cfht`, `validation_data_cfht`, `validation_data_decam`, `validate_drp` products are also buildable by the standard LSST DM stack tools: `lsstsw` or `eups distrib`.  But they (intentionally) aren't in the dependency tree of `lsst_apps`.  If you have a stack already installed with `lsst_apps`, you can install these in the same manner.  E.g.,

```
eups distrib install obs_decam obs_cfht validation_data_decam validation_data_cfht validate_drp
```

XOR

```
rebuild -u obs_decam obs_cfht validation_data_decam validation_data_cfht validate_drp
```

------
To setup for a run with CFHT:
```
setup obs_cfht 
setup validation_data_cfht
setup validate_drp
```
As usual, if any of these packages are not declared current you will also need to specify a version or tag.

`validation_data_cfht` contains both the test CFHT data and selected SDSS reference catalogs in astrometry.net format.

Run the measurement algorithm processing and astrometry test with
```
$VALIDATE_DRP_DIR/examples/runCfhtTest.sh
```
This will create a repository in your current working directory called CFHT.

The last line of the output will give the median astrometric scatter (in milliarcseconds) for stars with mag < 21.

------
To setup for a run with DECam:
```
setup obs_decam
setup validation_data_decam
setup validate_drp
```
As usual, if any of these packages are not declared current you will also need to specify a version or tag.

`validation_data_decam` contains both the test DECam data and selected SDSS reference catalogs in astrometry.net format.

Run the measurement algorithm processing and astrometry test with
```
$VALIDATE_DRP_DIR/examples/runDecamTest.sh
```
This will create a repository in your current working directory called DECam.

The last line of the output will give the median astrometric scatter (in milliarcseconds) for stars with mag < 21.

------
There are also "Quick" versions to run one CCD for quick debugging and verification that things are running properly: `examples/runCfhtQuickTest.sh` and `examples/runDecamQuickTest.sh`.

------
Multiple filters can be processed by specifying a filter name for each visit.  See `examples/DecamCosmos.yaml` for an example.  In brief:
```
# Visit - filter are matched pairs.
visits: [176837, 176839, 176840, 176841, 176842, 176843, 176844, 176845, 176846,
         177341, 177342, 177343, 177344, 177345, 177346,]
filter: ['z', 'z', 'z', 'z', 'z', 'z', 'z', 'z', 'z',
         'r', 'r', 'r', 'r', 'r', 'r', ]
# ccd list is iterated through for each visit-filter pair
ccdnum: [10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18]
```

------
While `examples/runCfhtTest.sh` and `examples/runDecamTest.sh` respectively do all of the processing and validation analysis, below are some examples of running the processing/measurement steps individually.  While these examples are from  the CFHT validation example, analogous commands would work for DECam.

1. Make sure the astrometry.net environment variable is pointed to the right place for this validation set:
    ```
    export ASTROMETRY_NET_DATA_DIR=${VALIDATION_DATA_CFHT_DIR}/astrometry_net_data
    ```

2. Ingest the files into the repository
    ```
    mkdir -p CFHT/input
    ingestImages.py CFHT/input "${VALIDATION_DATA_CFHT_DIR}"/raw/*.fz --mode link
    ```

3. Create the `runCfht.list` file from the YAML configuration file
    ```
    makeRunList.py "${VALIDATE_DRP_DIR}"/examples/runCfht.yaml > "${VALIDATE_DRP_DIR}"/examples/runCfht.list
    ```

Once these basic steps are completed, then you can run any of the following:

* To process all CCDs with the standard AstrometryTask and 6 threads use newAstrometryConfig.py:
    ```
    processCcd.py CFHT/input @examples/runCfht.list --configfile config/newAstrometryConfig.py --clobber-config -j 6 --output CFHT/output
    ```

* To process all CCDs with the old ANetAstrometryTask and 6 threads:
    ```
    processCcd.py CFHT/input @examples/runCfht.list --configfile config/anetAstrometryConfig.py --clobber-config -j 6 --output CFHT/output
    validateDrp.py CFHT/output --configFile examples/runCfht.yaml
    ```

* To process one CCD with the new AstrometryTask:
    ```
    processCcd.py CFHT/input  --id visit=850587 ccd=21 --configfile config/newAstrometryConfig.py --clobber-config --output tempout
    ```

* Or process one CCD with the ANetAstrometryTask:
    ```
    processCcd.py CFHT/input --id visit=850587 ccd=21 --configfile config/anetAstrometryConfig.py --clobber-config --output tempout
    ```

* Run the validation test
    ```
    validateDrp.py CFHT/output --configFile examples/runCfht.yaml
    ```

Note that the example validation test selects several of the CCDs and will fail if you just pass it a repository with 1 visit or just 1 CCD.

Files of Interest:
------------------
* `bin.src/validateDrp.py`  : Analyze output data produced by processCcd.py
* `config/cfhtConfig.py`  : empty config overrides for Cfht.  Edit to easily include config parameters in the examples.
* `config/decamConfig.py` : empty config overrides for Decam.  Edit to easily include config parameters in the examples.
* `examples/runCfhtTest.sh`  : CFHT Run initialization, ingest, measurement, and astrometry validation.
* `examples/runDecamTest.sh` : DECam Run initialization, ingest, measurement, and astrometry validation.
* `examples/runExample.sh`  : General example runner.
* `examples/Cfht.yaml`   : CFHT YAML file with visits, ccd, paramaters for validateDrp.
* `examples/Decam.yaml`   : DECam YAML file with visits, ccd, paramaters for validateDrp.
* `examples/DecamCosmos.yaml`   : DECam COSMOS YAML file with visits, ccd, paramaters for validateDrp.
* `python/lsst/validate/drp/base.py` : base routines for the module
* `python/lsst/validate/drp/calcSrd.py` : calculate metrics defined by the LSST SRC.
* `python/lsst/validate/drp/check.py` : coordination and calculation routines.
* `python/lsst/validate/drp/io.py` : JSON input and output routines.
* `python/lsst/validate/drp/plot.py` : plotting routines
* `python/lsst/validate/drp/print.py` : printing routines
* `python/lsst/validate/drp/srdSpec.py` : pipeBase Struct with SRD specifications.  Access routine helper.
* `python/lsst/validate/drp/util.py` : utility routines
* `README.md` : THIS FILE.  Guide and examples.
