doc/index.rst, before:

#################################################
lsst.validate.base — Metric Measurement Framework
#################################################

.. TODO slim down this intro

``lsst.validate.base`` provides a framework for making and reporting measurements of metrics.
This framework is used internally by ``lsst.validate.drp`` and can also be used by other packages that monitor algorithmic performance.

The measurement API is focused on making metric measurements and metadata available to the SQUASH dashboard.
All API objects can serialize themselves into a JSON format that can be submitted to the SQUASH dashboard's web API.
Datasets are also designed to be self-documenting, from both Python and JSON contexts.
Values are annotated with units (``astropy.units``-compatible) and readable descriptions.

The measurement API also features a YAML format for defining metrics and specification levels.
Metric objects are constructed from YAML definitions so that measurements can be validated against specifications (such as :lpm:`17`).

The measurement API consists of classes that can be used directly, as well as base classes.
API classes provide a consistent pattern for defining and measuring metrics.
These API classes also provide JSON serialization and methods for validating measurements against specification levels.

These are the key API classes, along with links to further documentation:

- :class:`~lsst.validate.base.Datum` objects wrap numerical data, whether it is a specification level, parameter, measurement value, or member of a 'blob' data object. :class:`~lsst.validate.base.Datum` objects contain the following fields:

  - A :attr:`~lsst.validate.base.Datum.value` field, which can be a scalar (int or float) or a sequence (`list` or ``numpy.ndarray``)
  - A :attr:`~lsst.validate.base.Datum.units` field, that annotates the physical units of the :attr:`~lsst.validate.base.Datum.value`. Units must be ``astropy.units``-compatible strings. For unitless quantities, units should be an empty string.
  - A :attr:`~lsst.validate.base.Datum.label` field, which can be used to decorate a plot axis or legend. The :attr:`~lsst.validate.base.Datum.label` should exclude reference of units. This :attr:`~lsst.validate.base.Datum.label` field is optional.
  - A :attr:`~lsst.validate.base.Datum.description` field that can include free form text that documents the Datum. The :attr:`~lsst.validate.base.Datum.description` field is also optional.
  
- :class:`~lsst.validate.base.Metric` is a class containing metadata about a metric, along with specification levels. Typically, :class:`~lsst.validate.base.Metric` objects are constructed from a YAML definition file, though they can also be arbitrarily constructed in Python. See :doc:`metric-dev` for more information.
- :class:`~lsst.validate.base.Specification` objects are contained inside :class:`~lsst.validate.base.Metric` objects, and define levels of expected measurement performance. Metrics can have multiple specifications indicating different performance goals (e.g., 'minimum', 'design' and 'stretch). Specifications can also be associated with certain observational bandpasses. Typically, :class:`~lsst.validate.base.Specification` objects are built automatically by the :class:`~lsst.validate.base.Metric` class from a YAML definition. Specifications can also be added manually to :class:`~lsst.validate.base.Metric` classes. See :doc:`metric-dev` for more information.
- :class:`~lsst.validate.base.MeasurementBase` is a base class for making measurements of a metric. All code needed for making a measurement can be contained by a subclass of :class:`~lsst.validate.base.MeasurementBase`. At a minimum, :class:`~lsst.validate.base.MeasurementBase` subclasses store a scalar value, but can also register additional :class:`~lsst.validate.base.Datum` objects that can be persisted to JSON. See :doc:`measurement-dev` for more information.
- :class:`~lsst.validate.base.BlobBase` is a base class for making blobs, which are a way of storing datasets in an object that is both convenient for measurement classes and serializable for JSON. Measurement classes can share a common blob without storing duplicate data in the SQUASH database. Blobs are linked to the measurements that use them, allowing blobs to power plots that provide context to measurements. See :doc:`blob-dev` for more information.
- :class:`~lsst.validate.base.Job` is a container for :class:`~lsst.validate.base.Metric`, :class:`~lsst.validate.base.MeasurementBase`-type and :class:`~lsst.validate.base.BlobBase`-type objects. Through a :class:`~lsst.validate.base.Job` instance, users can generate a single JSON object that can be submitted directly to the SQUASH dashboard API.

Using lsst.validate.base
========================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   metric-dev
   measurement-dev
   blob-dev

Python API Reference
====================

.. automodapi:: lsst.validate.base

.. automodapi:: lsst.validate.base.jsonmixin
   :no-inheritance-diagram:

.. automodapi:: lsst.validate.base.datummixin
   :no-inheritance-diagram:

Commit message:

Improve doc index page
Replaces the long introduction with a snappier feature list. Also
explains what we mean by metrics.

doc/index.rst, after:

.. currentmodule:: lsst.validate.base

.. _validate_base:

#################################################
lsst.validate.base — Metric Measurement Framework
#################################################

`lsst.validate.base` is a framework for building packages that make measurements of software and data quality metrics.
Though `lsst.validate.base`, developers can build validation pipelines that upload semantically-rich measurements to LSST's SQUASH_ monitoring dashboard.

In this framework, metrics can be any measurable scalar quantity.
For example, the LSST Science Requirements Document (:lpm:`17`) lists metrics related to astrometric and photometric performance.
The ``validate_drp`` package, in fact, uses the `lsst.validate.base` framework to measure :lpm:`17` metrics.

Metrics typically have *specification levels*, which act as development milestones or success criteria.
Using `lsst.validate.base` with the SQUASH_ dashboard lets you see at a glance how your code is performing relative to metric specifications from one commit to another.

Features
========

`lsst.validate.base` gives developers all the tools needed to make and report measurements to SQUASH_:

- Define metrics and their specifications :ref:`in YAML <validate-base-metric-yaml>`.
- Work with metrics and specifications :ref:`in Python <validate-base-metrics-in-python>` with `Metric` and `Specification` classes.
- Have different specifications apply to data from :ref:`different optical filters <validate-base-filter-specific-specs>`.
- :ref:`Annotate metrics <validate-base-metric-yaml>` with configuration parameters needed by measurement code---even :ref:`specification levels of other metrics <validate-base-metric-spec-dependencies>`.
- Create semantically-rich :ref:`measurement classes <validate-base-measurement-class>` that record not only a value but also metadata like input parameters and measurement by-products using the `MeasurementBase` base class.
- :ref:`Package input datasets as blobs <validate-base-creating-blobs>` that can power drill-down visualizations of measurements on the SQUASH_ dashboard.
- Give numbers meaning with Astropy_-compatible units, plot labels, and descriptions using the `Datum` class.
- Build a self-describing JSON document of measurements and blobs that's ready to submit to the SQUASH_ web API using the `Job` class.

Using lsst.validate.base
========================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   metric-dev
   measurement-dev
   blob-dev

Python API Reference
====================

.. automodapi:: lsst.validate.base

.. automodapi:: lsst.validate.base.jsonmixin
   :no-inheritance-diagram:

.. automodapi:: lsst.validate.base.datummixin
   :no-inheritance-diagram:

.. _SQUASH: https://squash.lsst.codes
